---
{
    "title": "A Week",
    "shortTitle": "a week",
    "summary": "a rough one!",
    "created": "2012-05-24",
    "modified": "2012-05-24",
    "type":"blog",
    "categories": [
    ],
    "tags": [
    ]
}
---
HA! this week has been one disaster after another, but everything still
seems to be on course and everyone is pretty much fine. R had a cold, S
caught it and started running a fever. We sat with him in the ER from
midnight till 4am last night. Now I have the cold. I got rear ended on
the day that I had to take a vacation day from one job to work a full
day on the other of which I did not get enough work done and should
probably take another day or two off. I'll get a new bumper, i guess,
eventually. I had to take a few hours off today to recoup from last
night's ER visit. As if R didn't already have enough going on taking
care of her and S, she lost her wallet so we had to do the whole
transfer money out of the ATM account and keep close tabs on the credit
card statement, but luckily she found her wallet so that worry is done.
Her computer was on the fritz and the parts
for which she had to drop everything to go buy were incorrect. So, I
wound up fixing the broken part with solder and tape while we ordered a
replacement online and had to return the wrong part today on my way in
to work (late.) I am falling behind on all 4 of my jobs to the point
where all I can do is sit back and laugh. There is so much work I think
Keeping Up is an unrealistic expectation. So, I stay the course. That's
all I can try to do. I laugh as I type this because even though
everything is falling apart, everything and everyone really is fine and
there are no real worries. Everything is just a silly mess soaked with
vomit and poo right now. Nothing more. This isn't supposed to come off
as sympathy seeking or complaining even though I know it does. It is
more of a setup for a side-note:

ER waiting areas really are something, aren't they? I work at a hospital
so I'm exposed to them (and the places just outside where smokers sit)
almost every day. The concern, tears, pacing and phone calls you see
happening in these areas make them (the ER waiting areas) feel to me
like the front row seat to the last, raw, true glimpse of human beings.
Catching a shaky, one ended phone conversation that starts out with, "We
lost him" and is punctuated by quick draws on a cigarette by someone
sort of hunched over with one arm akimbo probably isn't right but
accidentally catching that moment while walking between work areas
(really, just cold, grey rooms filled with cubes.) on a generic workday
is wow (this is something that someone else can do a better job of
describing with real words that mean something but I'm a quitter who
settles for wow.)

Last night, after committing various moving violations on the way to the
hospital, I dropped S & R off at the door so they could rush inside
while I parked the car. I got a good spot then walked with a woman into
the ER. She beat me to front desk and asked about so-and-so and the ER
nurse said so-and-so was getting a CT and they couldn't say anything
more but that there was a whole group of friends there already who knew
everything. She pointed to a dozen or so fresh faced HS kids each with
that look huddled in chairs, texting and hugging. I eventually found S &
R and R said, 'wow, did you see all those kids? I walked in behind 2
parents, i think their son tried to kill himself and those were all his
friends.'

wow. yeah, i think my week hasn't been half bad.
