---
{
    "title": "The Real War",
    "shortTitle": "real war",
    "summary": "a quote!",
    "created": "2012-05-14",
    "modified": "2012-05-14",
    "type":"blog",
    "categories": [
    ],
    "tags": [
    ]
}
---
Reading [The Real war
1939-1945](http://www.theatlantic.com/past/docs/unbound/bookauth/battle/fussell.htm)
and just wanted to keep this in mind:

> A little booklet issued to infantry replacements joining the Fifth
> Army in Italy contained tips to ease the entry of innocents into
> combat: Don't believe all the horror stories circulating in the outfit
> you're joining. Don't carry too much stuff. Don't excrete in your
> foxhole -- if you can't get out, put some dirt on a shovel, go on
> that, and throw the load out. Keep your rifle clean and ready. Don't
> tape down the handles of your grenades for fear of their flying off
> accidentally -- it takes too long to get the tape off. Learn to dig in
> fast when shelling starts. Watch the ground for evidence of mines and
> booby traps. On the move, keep contact but don't bunch up. And use
> common sense in your fight against fear: \
>  Don't be too scared. Everybody is afraid, but you can learn to
> control your fear. And, as non-coms point out, "you have a good chance
> of getting through if you don't lose your head. Being too scared is
> harmful to you. " Remember that a lot of noise you hear is ours, and
> not dangerous. It may surprise you that on the whole, many more are
> pulled out for sickness or accident than become battle casualties.

****

There are ETF's that track daily s&p returns but are leveraged and
inverted. For ex. you can buy an etf that tracks the s&p 3x's inverse.
Meaning, if the s&p goes up 10, the etf will go down 30. I didn't read
into it much so I'm assuming it is a percentage, and not actual points.
it's got to be, right? Anyway: **ProShares UltraShort Dow30
NYSEARCA:DXD** and **ProShares UltraPro SS&P500 NYSEARCA:SPXU** seems
like a good tool for risk management which leads to:

**JP Morgan** -\> trading complex, highly leveraged, synthetic...
hedges? Not sure what to call them yet (still wrapping my head around
the syntax) to manage risk can blow up, and everyone makes mistakes, and
JP Morgan is trading something like \$17T when they're worth something
like \$14B (that's some leverage.) So, a \$2B loss isn't that horrible
and it is bound to happen (risk is, by definition, risky.) I won't
pretend to know if this kind of thing warrants regulation and as far as
I understand of what I've read, they (JP's CIO arm) sort of cornered the
market on hedging credit risk which pissed off hedge funds but hedge
funds have been fighting regulation so there isn't much they could do
but talk to reporters (mid April) which published, which got the
attention of other JP arms which ordered CIO to unwind their positions
at a costly time and so the pissed off hedge funds are going to sit and
wait causing wide bid/ask spreads which will cost JP even more. whoops.
