---
{
    "title": "Ozark Astronauts",
    "shortTitle": "stars",
    "summary": "floating in stars",
    "created": "2015-05-10",
    "modified": "2015-05-10",
    "type":"blog",
    "categories": [
        "stories"
    ],
    "tags": [
        "stories"
    ]
}
---
We were sitting on the platform surrounded by water with no land in sight and the air was crisp and still and it was good. Our dangling feet were the only things moving for miles and the stars reflected perfectly in the black water. We were somehow holding hands and after a short, steady flow of falling stars the earth melted away at our sides and it was as if we were floating in space. In a way, we were.

It started out as the kind of trip that needed real flashlights instead of apps. Almost none of us knew where we were going and there was no moon; only the fog of our breath, bare trees, and old roads. Someone up ahead called out, "The barn is just down this gravel path" and I heard rocks slip behind me and a girl cry out, "OZARK!" then laugh. Ozark turned to an expletive after four hours of driving through the back roads of Missouri looking for a party.

The barn was down that path and the party was just behind in a 30 acre clearing that was already packed with people. Headlights and bonfires lit the field and girls danced in truck beds and guys watched and literally hollered. We were all young. I was stupid drunk by time we got there and immediately broke away from my group and started meeting people. I wish I could remember what exactly happened or how I met her but I have come to accept that it ain't gonna happen. I'll never find her again. 

She was pretty and all I know for sure is she asked why I had a box of wine. I pulled the silver bag out of the box and yelled, "Because it is SPACE WINE!" She asked if I had ever been to space and I said no and she asked if I'd like to and I said yeah. She looked at me and her bottom lip caught on her left lateral incisor and her eyes were green and she said, "Come with me? I have..." She touched my antecubital fossa and said, "Something."

There we were in her shitty car and listening to bands I didn't know. I kept stopping myself from asking where we were going or why her left arm was in a cast. She threw trash out her window and drove quickly. Soon we were off main roads and driving past "no trespassing" signs and she stopped at a gate. She got out to open it and I thought maybe I should run but I didn't. We drove up what seemed like mining roads. Up and up and then she stopped and turned off the car.

"Can you swim?" she asked.

"Yes."

"Good. Get out."

We were at some sort of electric plant at the top of an Ozark mountain.

"What is this place?" I asked.

"It is called a pumped storage site. The electric company pumps water into the upper reservoir at night and then uses it to push turbines during the day at peak usage. It is offline right now. We are going up there." She pointed to a ladder that led up the side of the reservoir and we climbed.

The water was full almost to the top and since the reservoir was at the top of the tallest mountain in the area, there was nothing to see but sky and what seemed like the biggest infinity pool ever built.
 
We were sitting on the platform surrounded by water with no land in sight and the air was crisp and still and it was good. Our dangling feet were the only things moving for miles and the stars reflected perfectly in the black water. We were somehow holding hands and after a short, steady flow of falling stars the earth melted away at our sides and it was as if we were floating in space. In a way, we were.
 
That was the first time I made it to outer space.